hello and welcome to this week's
Stellar developer meeting  this new
Stellar developer meeting this new
format where we are trying out twitch
and  we're trying a new format where
and we're trying a new format where
we do shorter  presentations so let's
we do shorter presentations so let's
see how it goes  this hopefully this
see how it goes this hopefully this
will go smooth but it is the first time
we're trying a new platform so there
might be some some smaller hicups
with my with me today I have  I have
with my with me today I have I have
Alberto which I've had the pleasure
meeting several times  at at different
meeting several times at at different
SDF events and and  he is going to
SDF events and and he is going to
talk about trustless work today so
please go ahead and introduce yourself
and share your screen Alberto okay let
me give me a second to present hello
everybody my name is Alberto as he said
I'm from Costa
Rica I am building Cress work  please
Rica I am building Cress work please
confirm if you can see my screen because
I have one monitor so I'm not
sure but I think you
do
okay and yeah ER we are building
trustless work  trustless work is ESC
trustless work trustless work is ESC
infrastructure for the new economy so
basically
to to understand a little bit what I'm
talking about basically in very
simplistic terms an escro is a neutral
secure way to hold money or funds while
the ass while something is happening H
the most common use of escrow that you
might know is real estate real estate
escros which in this case we use a an
agent or an escro agent like a bank to
hold the funds while the legal
inspections and the paperwork happens
for a house but we also have digital
escrows in the case of eBay Who as a
Marketplace they hold the fun while the
merchant actually delivers the product
and same thing for upwork which holds
the fund while the freelancer completes
the the
deliverable but if you try to build this
today with Fiat payments it'll be next
to Impossible and that's because
Legacy Astros as I call it have a huge
problem which is Fiat payments  Fiat
problem which is Fiat payments Fiat
payments require banking they are very
costly they're very slow they're very
limited in flexibility they have
transparency and they're obviously full
of frictions that if you're here
watching a seller call you understand
the frictions that fi payments provide
so not anymore at trustless work we're
building the esro infrastructure so
basically we're abstracting the
configuration deployment and interaction
with smart contracts to create smart
escros which provide the same
functionality as escrs and even more
because they're cheap they're fast
they're permissionless a transparent and
Global and so in this way marketplaces
e-commerce directories trade file and
many more use cases are unlocked that
can actually use this  functionality
can actually use this functionality
without requiring a blockchain
expertise  what we're building in
expertise what we're building in
trustless work is also an ecosystem so
we're building in an open source way or
all the asro tools the templates and the
dev tools so that it becomes as simple
as possible to initialize fund sign
review approve and release payments over
sell Network we are focused on usdc
which is again it's the one that brings
less friction We Believe for volatility
but  we can all already  use this on
but we can all already use this on
any asset  admitted issued on Sellar
any asset admitted issued on Sellar
network  some of our traction a little
network some of our traction a little
bit of the story we started working this
in July we got into the Astro Hacker
House is sponsored by Sellar and Draper
University that's where we built the
version one of the smart contracts the
API and the documentation which we
launched on testet on a Costa Rican
hackathon  we also got accepted to the
hackathon we also got accepted to the
Stellar Draper U Embark program which is
where I'm at right now and we also
participated in the only dust OD hack
number 10 which allowed us to accelerate
our development we got the escro
version two done in an open source and
the escro UI version one we also
recently got awarded the an SCF Grant so
thank you very much for that right now
we're building the API version two
because we're preparing for OD hack
number 11  where again if you want to
number 11 where again if you want to
contribute you're more than invited to
contribute or another esro UI version
too H some partner Integrations and
there are some even research and and
tasks that we're going to add there H
we're getting ready for demo day on
Draper U which is by the end of January
and we are going to be launching on
mayet around q1  2025 probably around
mayet around q1 2025 probably around
March H trustless work I mentioned only
dust and this is something really
interesting that is happening with
trustless work is that our hackathon
projects the the ones that were in the
in a tested launch have evolved into
becoming a vertical on their own so each
one of these projects was part by
themselves of the only hack of the OD
hack number 10 they got contributors by
the themselves and they got funds to to
to initialize their development and
mature their their development so
directly or indirectly I think trustless
work has over 70 developers contributing
to the ecosystem and all of these
projects are going to become templates
for Integrations that are going to make
easier to integrate trustless work into
into all use cases probably and incoming
we have a casino poker use cases who
want to use escrow and trade F use cases
one that I want
to to stand out is KFI KFI was able to
build in a week
crowdfunding H for social impact
solution  using our escros so
solution using our escros so
basically they use our escros as a
deposit account where people can deposit
funds and they the payment is released
to the foundation by Milestones so yeah
we are getting into AI driven
development also to accelerate how we
are  integrated in in common use
are integrated in in common use
cases we are a core team of four and
myself Alberto I'm the CEO and product
lead I have experience  as product
lead I have experience as product
manager even from Project since Corda to
ethereum to exerp base and stellar and
Joel Armando and calev they are the
development team they have been
contributing to Stark net and ethereum
ecosystems and now they moved into
Stellar also  because of this project
Stellar also because of this project
and we're also backed by a community of
over 180 developers from latam from
Latin America H which is called Dojo
coding shout out to them they're
probably going to be here and yeah
that's  what we're doing in in
that's what we're doing in in
trustless work the this is a linked to
my LinkedIn if you want to connect I
will gladly do so if you want to
contribute please do and yeah we're
building again the the escrow
infrastructure for the new economy and
I'm very happy that it's going to happen
on
Stellar great thank you for for the
presentation I I think it's it's very
exciting
how fast you have really been able to to
spin this up and and already starting to
get traction  just a reminder are you
get traction just a reminder are you
on test net or are you on Main net right
now we're on test net right now yeah so
yeah there's a lot of things we have to
figure out ER be U before we launch a
main with real funds H we won't make
Revenue until we have we're on Main it
so yeah but we don't want to rush that
we've gotten support from the community
am from  Draper and seller Ventures so
am from Draper and seller Ventures so
yeah we we want to take our time with
that yeah so so anyone who wants to to
explore what you're doing   they can
explore what you're doing they can
go to your website I have seen your
documentation is pretty good so I could
actually start building on on your your
platform right now if I wanted to Yes
that's the idea yeah I've gotten really
much into deil also I'm part of deil uni
H so I've been learning a lot about that
and yeah we're working on our docks and
making as simple as possible to go from
zero to hello world so yeah yeah I think
that that we talked about  previously
that that we talked about previously
was was open sourcing and and  can you
was was open sourcing and and can you
share a little bit about your experience
with open sourcing your projects sure
yeah it's been  crazy I'm from product
yeah it's been crazy I'm from product
management so I I I am used to like over
communicating things and features like
to to to make things clearer but being
open source really has been like a a a
great effort like to think about who's
gonna come I don't know them they have
no context on our product so how we can
make like their life easier and gladly
our core team Joel arando and cev
they they have experience already you
know us so they have been in the other
side of Open Source contributions also
so they were they knew like the best
yeah like the formats how to explain it
h we're also leveraging AI also like
I've learned that Cod rabbit really
helps like to to start to to describe H
things and and yeah look for
improvements but yeah I think that the
traction like how we were able like to
build like I think by faes we got like
the hackathon as phase one so we built
like trustless work was an API we got
like these five teams building hackathon
projects and after od10 like they're all
like more mature like each one got like
20 contributors so it's crazy how we
were able like to start building this
ecosystem and now it's really
interesting like to connect them like
both that we doing marketplaces to
connect them so they can start also
accelerating their own and focus on
different aspects of it h so yeah I'm
really excited on the on the
opportunities and the possibilities that
this provides like to build that
ecosystem and to start even mapping
contributions like now we're moving
everything to GitHub like even the
documentation all the work I do because
it's not you know it's hard to track
even what I do so now we want to track
it so because again we want to be able
to to leverage that as much as possible
and yeah we're getting we're learning a
lot and it's really interesting that's
great  you mentioned  in your
great you mentioned in your
presentation  real estate because
presentation real estate because
that's probably where most of us  know
that's probably where most of us know
escros from but  can you maybe talk a
escros from but can you maybe talk a
little bit about what kind of projects
that are interested in using your
service what kind of categories what
kind of Industries they're in because I
know it's not just real estate companies
yeah yeah I've gotten a lot of interest
from Real Estate that's for sure ER I I
myself I I explain that we are
infrastructure provider like we are a
technical partner like we are not
building for real real estate but they
can obviously leverage us so this
unlocks like for example for real estate
agents or even lawyers to deploy their
own escros and not require this banking
agent that may take three days two days
and where's the wire kind of like
experience which is every what I get as
feedback but even more than that for
example a trade f is really interesting
I'm from Costa Rica I mentioned
earlier Costa Rica is a was just invited
to join a
a trade Union with 14 countries in the
Pacific so it starts becoming really
interesting like how are we going to
handle payments you know with the new
countries new economies that we don't
have like a lot of H Financial
relationship with Malaysia Singapore
Peru those kind of countries so trade f
is something that's really interesting
right now for us H but also for example
one of the teams buil used our ESR to
create a security deposit solution for
house rentals for example if you think
about it like every time you do a
security deposit in any Hospitality car
rentals house rentals like it's always
the card processor and you never know
where the money is and it's always
blocked for a certain amount of time and
nobody's responsible for that and yeah
they created this because escr are
configurable in that sense they created
an escrow that again is release back to
myself unless there is a unless there is
a dispute so that's like security
security deposits and if you look for
security deposit technology there's like
not much out there H so it becomes
really interesting like to start
experimenting with this and seeing for
example if we do a plugin for I don't
know Cloud BS or like plugin for jeta or
do this in integrate this in Shopify and
different types of of interactions that
are becoming really interesting and
again we can
only aboard those by being open source
and getting as much contri to get this
band with  because yeah if it was
band with because yeah if it was
internal resources it would be
impossible impossible yeah yeah and it
sounds like it's it's not just  crypto
sounds like it's it's not just crypto
companies or crypto projects that are
interested in in in in  in using your
interested in in in in in using your
service actually maybe the opposite
maybe the opposite yeah yeah and that's
Al also one of the main reasons we chose
Stellar the the anchor Network and the
unram and offrs partners  yeah we
unram and offrs partners yeah we
don't we want  them to be like have a
don't we want them to be like have a
good experience be able to send an a be
able to send a wire  it depends on the
able to send a wire it depends on the
use case like even credit card or or
card processing so so yeah there's all
these partners that we need to explore
and start integrating or make it as
simple as possible to integrate four
people ER platforms we're going to use
our
technology  so yeah we're really
technology so yeah we're really
excited for that
what other one yeah it's mostly that
crowdfunding is becoming really
interesting also like for Aid like if we
make it very simple to deploy like this
kind of esrs to receive payments from
globally it it's really interesting for
Aid also so there are a lot of
opportunities  to abstract the
opportunities to abstract the
blockchain and and yeah become yesterday
I said I was preing yesterday and they
said we wanted to become like the stripe
of
escros and  which is ambitious for me
escros and which is ambitious for me
and somebody corrected me and said like
no let's do the Salesforce for esos so
so so yeah that's the kind of
infrastructure that we want to to
provide and I think a EST Stellar is
perfect for that I think we are in a
great moment for that stable coin
adoption is like booming and and yeah
hopefully hopefully we're right on time
yeah yeah it's it's it's amazing to see
see what your building and and how fast
you're doing it it's it's really it's
it's a huge inspiration also  also
it's a huge inspiration also also
that you really Embrace open source and
I think I think that's that's  you're
I think I think that's that's you're
really shown that that by embracing open
source and putting it out there  you
source and putting it out there you
get a lot of contributions you get a lot
of people playing around with it  so
of people playing around with it so
so yeah that's that's that's great to
see as well yeah the verticals can also
like add like we have a fixed fee for
trustless work like on escros
which is 3% and they can add an extra
fee so like if they like they become the
security deposits like product on top of
us like they there is a huge business
model to have so like that's why we're
taking like such a small tiny cut
because we want to provide like that
layer zero of infrastructure so that all
their products can come and build upon
us and offer this functionality which
it's mostly like people have
experimented with this but it's mostly
untested in a lot of niches use cases
and verticals all around like every time
I talk to someone I get like 10 ideas of
things we can build back and yeah only s
open source is the only way honestly do
you have any any idea when you will
actually go live on
mainnet according to our seller
Community Fund Grant around March April
is is what we want we're targeting for
that
yeah we're still like version two of the
contract is already like the API goes
after that and like we have all that
that kind of  flow H so yeah I think I
that kind of flow H so yeah I think I
think it's really feasible by by March
yeah I I I I think it's it's also quick
that's it's  it's only like three
that's it's it's only like three
four months away so yeah part of the
grant part of the Community Fund Grant
also has this auditing H so I'm also
looking forward for that
because that would really like help and
also that's why open source makes a lot
of sense so as much eyes as possible own
our contracts and so on so we get get
more feedback which is one of the best
validation techniques I think yeah
yeah yeah I think  I think when when
yeah yeah I think I think when when
you're holding  other people's funds
you're holding other people's funds
the the auditing part is super critical
it's it's just just
having a third party
verify your code go through your code
and and be able to say that that this
that our code and our solution has been
audited by a third party I think it also
builds a lot of trust so yeah so so yeah
it's it's I think it's it's a great
thing that we have that in as a part of
our Community Fund program yeah yeah
it's really useful looking forward for
that okay great great thank you so much
it's always a pleasure to talk to you
and it's super exciting to see
you're making and what you're building
on Stella it's I think it's an
inspiration for everyone in the
community thank you thank you for
joining sure my pleasure talk to you
later
bye okay and then  let me
see then  as a part of the new the new
see then as a part of the new the new
format we we're trying out here
we'll we'll try to do the the
presentations a little bit shorter and
then have have maybe two or three
presentations per per per time  this
presentations per per per time this
time I we don't have a second
presentation but instead I am going to
experiment with a little bit with some
live coding  I have been testing out
live coding I have been testing out
some AI tools  that can assist  you
some AI tools that can assist you
in in building smart contracts on
stellar and and I think I think it's
interesting and seeing from the
perspective that if you're new to
building smart contracts  in soran or
building smart contracts in soran or
on Stellar then then some of these tools
can be be a great help so  let's see
can be be a great help so let's see
if I can if I can share my
screen I think
it's it's loading here let see if I can
make it a little bit bigger
yeah okay so  what I'm going to show
yeah okay so what I'm going to show
here is  just the hello world
here is just the hello world
application  the the demo example app
application the the demo example app
we have  show how to run that this
we have show how to run that this
inside cursor  cursor is is an AI
inside cursor cursor is is an AI
assisted  IDE you can use for many
assisted IDE you can use for many
different software  language
different software language
and just for the fun of it I tested it
out  not that long time ago to see
out not that long time ago to see
because I was pretty sure it's probably
that's probably not support for for for
soran  but I to to my surprise that
soran but I to to my surprise that
that was actually pretty good  support
that was actually pretty good support
so I'm just going to go through a very
simple example of how you can use it and
and I think this this might be very
helpful if you're new to developing on
on on Stell soran so so let's let's just
give it a give it a try  it looks very
give it a give it a try it looks very
much like  like like other tools you
much like like like other tools you
are you're used to using the it the the
the ID is is pretty pretty  standard
the ID is is pretty pretty standard
looking and  I have a terminal and I
looking and I have a terminal and I
will just try to  I'll just try to
will just try to I'll just try to
to set up the the hello world smart
contract
so let's try
that and and let's call
this okay so what we have here
is a new smart contract it's the hello
world smart contract and we can try to
open the code
here and this is very much like what
you're used to seeing in your in your
[Music]
IDE and we can do the same we can in
other IDs so let's let's just try to run
this
let's run a
test oh I need to get into the right
directory and it just takes a minute and
then it should hopefully run the the
test without any issues while this is
running  the what I want to show here
running the what I want to show here
is I'm going to take this very simple
smart contract and then I'm going to add
some function it to it  what I want to
some function it to it what I want to
do is I want to store the value to that
is provided by by by the the caller the
invoker and if there is already a value
stored
and we are not providing a value when we
when we invoke the the smart contract so
if two is empty then I'll just take the
last value that's a very simple very
simple smart contract  but but it
simple smart contract but but it
actually shows shows
a a pretty a good example of what what
you're doing like when you're messing
around with code for the first time or
when you're if you're very new to it so
let's try that out so
first I I want to
store I can see it is already remembered
what I've done before that's it's not
supposed to do that but  what what I
supposed to do that but what what I
do here in in  in the in the IDE is
do here in in in the in the IDE is
that I press command and K I'm using
Macbook so it's command and then I I
write
let's see  let's say say store
let's see let's say say store
to in
storage so I just type what what I want
to accomplish what I want to do and then
I click the generate
button and then it will make a
suggestion and I can see that this is
not just some generic rust code this is
actually this is actually  soran code
actually this is actually soran code
and I think this looks pretty good so
let's just accept
that so so now we have a line here that
was generated by the AI that
stores the the value from the string
from two when it's provided to  our
from two when it's provided to our
instant
storage I can I can then say Okay
I only want to use this storage
if if  the two value here when we
if if the two value here when we
invoke the smart contract if there's no
value here then I want to use the then I
want to use the the the stored value
from the first time we ran it so so
let's let's try to to have it do that
again I press command and
okay and then then let's just
say and again I just describe it it if
if two is
empty
use two from
storage and let's see what it comes up
with okay so it actually initializes a
new in new variable and it checks if two
is is has a length that's equal zero and
if it if it is then we get it from from
storage and if not then we just return
the one we got from the the parameter
from an invoking the smart contract this
this looks pretty good so so let's
let's just do
that and having this line of code here
is actually fine because this  if if
is actually fine because this if if
it's valid then we want to update the
value in storage and if it's if it's
just getting the same from  from
just getting the same from from
before if if two was empty then it's
just restoring the same value so that's
that's fine too so so let's  let's
that's fine too so so let's let's
let's try to run this I'm not going to
build and deploy it to test net I'm just
going to use the test case and  if we
going to use the test case and if we
go to
test first I just want to store
this so if we see the test case here
that is provided it comes out of the box
when we when we   create the the
when we when we create the the
smart contract
then
we provide Dev as a string when we
invoke the contract and then we check
for it if it contains Dev but because we
also want to test for the case where
there there's not a string  not a
there there's not a string not a
string  when we invoke it let's create
string when we invoke it let's create
the test case for that as
well oh
and let's like make this
mutable and then we just add
an empty string here so when we run this
because we ran this one first where we
stored Dev the dev string in storage we
should still get get Dev when we run
this test even though we don't provide a
string here so
let's let's try to run this
test there is an
error if we go back to the the code here
this way of setting what type of
output we're getting is probably
throwing an error so let's just specify
that this is a string
and let's see if we can run it
again okay so it  it now completed so
again okay so it it now completed so
that means that first it both test test
cases here were were passed the whole
test file as a as a whole was  was
test file as a as a whole was was
completed and without errors so when we
provide Dev as a parameter first when we
invoke the contract we store that in in
the storage and then the second time we
run it without without the value and it
still gets dep because it's pulling it
from from the  the the
from from the the the
storage now I I know a little bit more
about storage  on on in sorond so I
about storage on on in sorond so I
know that this is instant storage
there we have three different types of
storage we have the the instant storage
we have the the temporary storage and we
have the the the permanent storage so is
this the right one to use and and that's
a neat little feature that I can use I
can actually ask the IDE if this is the
right  if if this is the right source
right if if this is the right source
to use so I use command and
L and let's
just delete
these and then I can
ask
which storage
type should I
use let's see what I
get so here we actually getting
it
says this is actually not a relevant
[Music]
example  let's try try to rephrase
example let's try try to rephrase
this is more a front end
answer
if I ask is
instance the right
type seems like it's looking
at seems it looking like I actually had
it
this is typical when you do something
live let's see
explain soran storage
types let's see
what yeah this was a little bit more
along the lines of what what it returned
when I was testing it out  but but I
when I was testing it out but but I
can actually hear in the IDE
ask what the different storage types are
and it mentions instant storage
persistent storage and temporary storage
and then it gives me an example of how
to use
it and then it gives me some some more
information  I have actually had it
information I have actually had it
reply to me that because of the the
nature of the the smart contract the
functionality that I that I I'm building
here that I had pick the right storage
type that instant storage would be the
best type  it it was that that's what
best type it it was that that's what
I was hoping it would show again but but
we can actually instead of having to go
to documentation or or go to to other
places to see and to learn more about it
we can actually just use the chat and
and and get some some valuable feedback
at least at least some of the times so
so yeah this this was a this was a quick
example of
how AI is is going to help us build
smart contracts as well I I I was really
pleasantly surprised when I saw that
that it it it knows how to how to assist
me when I'm building smart contracts and
and I think it's it's it's a it it's
really relevant for especially
developers who are new to seller new to
soran that that they can get a little
bit of  of help without leaving the
bit of of help without leaving the
the ID so so yeah I I hope I hope this
was  helpful and maybe you you feel
was helpful and maybe you you feel
like  like like trying it yourself
like like like trying it yourself
I have just tried this tool it's cursor
and it's a free version I'm using
it's not an endorsement or anything it's
just the one that I happen to to try out
but  but yeah try to play with it
but but yeah try to play with it
and  I think I think it's it's it's
and I think I think it's it's it's
it's great fun and and eventually I
think it it'll be it'll help me to get
more productive when I'm
coding okay that's  that's all I had
coding okay that's that's all I had
for today  I don't know if there's any
for today I don't know if there's any
questions we can take questions if if
there is anything
I see Chris has been very active
answering questions and commenting as
well
yeah it's an interesting
discussion okay if  if there's not
discussion okay if if there's not
anything else  then  thank you
anything else then thank you
everyone for joining I I hope this this
that you like this format we will
we will start we will continue to to
experiment and try different things and
and I think  I think it's it looks
and I think I think it's it looks
like  twitch is giving us a lot less
like twitch is giving us a lot less
technical issues than we've had in the
past  when we've done done these
past when we've done done these
meetings on Discord so so  so yeah
meetings on Discord so so so yeah
we'll we'll continue  here and  and
we'll we'll continue here and and
shortly we will send out and I'll share
that on Discord as well we'll have a
we'll have a a a sign up page where you
can sign up for notifications so when
when we when we plan a new session and
we go live you you can get an email
notification that was one of the that
was one of the suggestions that we got
from from the session we did where we
talked about some of our plans and what
we would like to do and and was looking
for feedback and  and and we are
for feedback and and and we are
working on setting up an email  list
working on setting up an email list
so so you can subscribe to that and and
get notifications when when we  when
get notifications when when we when
we have a a new planned   meeting so
we have a a new planned meeting so
so thank you everyone for joining we'll
see you in a week
bye
e
e e